---
layout: post
title: "A Change of Direction"
date: 2014-04-06 
image-link: Biking-Across-the-US/images/directions.jpg
categories: 
excerpt: "When I was a senior in college studying in Spain, I had many conversations with my Polish roommate, Agata, about the future. I remember one time we were sitting in a cafe, talking in Spanish (our common language) about our impending return to the real world. I was mere months away from graduating into a tough job market with no plan and no real idea what I wanted to do or be."
---
When I was a senior in college studying in Spain, I had many conversations with my Polish roommate, Agata, about the future. I remember one time we were sitting in a cafe, talking in Spanish (our common language) about our impending return to the real world. I was mere months away from graduating into a tough job market with no plan and no real idea what I wanted to do or be. 

Finding the thought of a traditional office job unsettling, Agata and I entertained some fanciful ideas. We talked about volunteering on [organic farms](http://www.wwoof.net/), working as au pairs in other countries, finding [seasonal work](http://www.coolworks.com/) at resorts, joining a Conservation Corps, living at a Buddhist retreat center, working in Ireland through [Bunac](http://www.bunac.org/), or teaching English in South America or Asia.   

The following semester (my last of college) I studied in London, and it was then that the idea of extended bicycle travel first entered my head. I remember sitting on my bunk in a tiny flat that I shared with four other students. I had just started reading a fascinating [book](<http://www.amazon.co.uk/Free-Adventures-margins-wasteful-society/dp/0091932734) by a local bicycle activist I had met about her experiment living as a squatter and dumpster diver in London. Looking up the book reviews online somehow led me to a [blog post](http://tomsbiketrip.com/how-im-making-a-living-as-an-adventurer/) by a fellow who had set off on an around-the-world bike trip at the age of 23. His thoughts and words resonated with me, and his story inspired me so much that I stayed up late poring over his blog with growing excitement. I was struck with the idea that a long-distance bike trip was something *I* could do myself. Suddently the future seemed bright and full of freedom and adventure and limitless opportunity. This euphoria lasted for days, and I couldn't stop thinking about bike travel.  

When I moved back to the US I let my adventure plans fall to the back burner while I moved back home with my parents in Houston (much appreciation for their support) and started applying for jobs all over the country in the field I had studied. The job search took far longer than I even anticipated, but instead of spiraling into frustration and despair, the next six months were surprisingly enriching and restorative. In addition to job searching I worked part-time at a coffeeshop (and consequently became a morning person), spent quality time reconnecting with my parents and old friends, started running regularly for the first time in my life, volunteered for a local [campaign](http://houstonparksboard.org/bgi/2020/), and did some work for a former professor. When I finally landed a full-time job offer at a research firm in Oakland, California six months after graduating it felt like the right timing and the right opportunity.     
  
So, out I moved to the Bay Area where I spent all of 2013 working and running races and making friends and trying to be a responsible adult. There are so many beautiful places to explore and so much going on in the Bay, it felt like paradise.  

I learned a ton in my job, and by getting to work on a variety of projects I gained a lot of insight into what type of things I find energizing and engaging and what type of things bore me to tears. After a year of this, I was starting to give some serious thought to my trajectory. If I wanted to continue in my field then the next logical step would be grad school, but I wasn't sure I loved what I do enough to dive into that world even deeper. I felt the need to explore other options to find what really sets me on fire.    

Outside of work I had been tapping into the tech buzz of the Bay Area. I had been wanting to learn to program for a while. A few of my best college friends studied Computer Science, and from listening to them talk about it all the time I had a suspicion it was something I might enjoy, too. I never did end up exploring that, though, until I moved to the Bay and saw the explosion of tech events on meetup.com. I started by going to workshops and study groups for women learning to code and then began teaching myself through online tutorials and small projects. I found that I really *do* enjoy programming. I love how it challenges you to constantly teach yourself new tools and concepts, and of course I love the rush you get when you finally get a program to work. I love how it combines creativity, logic, and problem-solving. It awakens parts of my brain that had been dormant for too long.    
    
Through tech events I heard about hacker bootcamps, intensive three-month coding schools that seem to be popping up everywhere in the last couple of years. They market themselves as the new CS degree and boast impressive success at preparing aspiring programmers for junior-level positions. I applied to Hackbright Academy, a program in San Francisco that aims to get more women into tech, and got accepted for the Fall 2014 cohort.    

All this time the thought of bike travel has never been far from my mind. Even after spending most of my summers in college traveling and a year studying abroad, my inner vagabond remained unsatiated and craved a new and different type of adventure. One weekend last year some coworkers and I did a two-day bike trip from San Francisco to Santa Cruz. The hills of Hwy 1 were relentless but the views of the Pacific and the sense of accomplishment when we reached our destination made it one of the most memorable weekends of my life.   
    
A while back I made a profile on [WarmShowers](www.warmshowers.org), a hospitality exchange site, like CouchSurfing specifically for bicycle tourists. I almost forgot about the site until I got a call one day from a girl who was passing through Berkeley on her tour and asked to stay with me. Her name was Brooke. After she graduated from college in Vermont, she and some friends had biked and taken Amtrak across the country. She stopped and worked on a goat farm in Oregon for a while and then biked down the coast to San Francisco by herself. She was so ecstatic about her trip it made me want to take off on my own tour that day.    
    
Now I'm feeling the pull of the open road stronger than ever, and this time I'm making concrete plans to follow it. With this career change coming up the bike trip will be a perfect thing to transition. I feel nervous and excited. I can't wait to get out there.
